Život je pes.
Things in life often don't go your way.

Nejlepší obrana je útok.
Attack is the best form of defence.

Kdo jinému jámu kopá, sám do ní padá.
If you try to trick someone else, you will end up paying for it yourself.

Oko za oko, zub za zub.
People should be punished for crimes in a way that reflects the crime they committed.

Kdo chce s vlky býti, musí s nimi výti.
If you want to befriend bad people, don't be surprised when they expect you to do bad things too.

Nouze naučila Dalibora housti.
If you need to learn something, you will.

Nekupuj zajíce v pytli.
Don't buy something if you're not sure what it is.

Ráno moudřejší večera.
Don't send stupid e-mails when you're drunk.

Všechno má své meze.
Don't push things/ people beyond their limits.

Mluviti stříbro, mlčeti zlato.
Sometimes it's best to stay quiet.

Zdání klame.
"Don't judge a book by its cover."

Kdo lže, ten krade.
People who commit some misdemeanors are likely guilty of others, too.

Když se chce, všechno jde.
If you try hard enough to get something, you will succeed.

Ranní ptáče dál doskáče.
"The early bird gets the worm."

Ve dvou se to lépe táhne.
If you have someone to share your work with, the work will be easier.

Bez práce nejsou koláče.
You need to work hard in order to reap the rewards.

Každý začátek je těžký.
It's always difficult to begin something.

Dvakrát měř a jednou řež.
Make sure you've properly thought something over before you commit to an action.

Zakázané ovoce chutná nejlépe.
It's always difficult to stop yourself doing something that has been explicitly forbidden.

Naděje umírá poslední.
"Hope dies last."

Proti gustu žádný dišputát.
People have different tastes.

Jiný kraj, jiný mrav.
"When in Rome..."

Hlad je nejlepší kuchař.
"Needs must."

Kam vítr, tam plášť.
Some people will always follow the crowd.

Já o voze, ty o koze.
Said when two people find they have been talking about completely different things.

Náš zákazník, náš pán.
"The customer is always right."

Nestrkej nos, do čeho ti nic není.
"Mind your own business!"

Nedělej z komára velblouda.
"Don't make mountains out of molehills."

Malé ryby také ryby.
Even if something seems insignificant, it's still something.

Lež má krátké nohy, daleko neujde.
If you lie, your lies will come back to haunt you.

Pozdě bycha honit.
It's easy to think of what might have been.

Sejde z očí, sejde z mysli.
"Out of sight, out of mind."

Čas je nejlepší lék.
"Time heals all wounds."

Sliby – chyby.
Don't make promises that you can't keep.

Co je psáno, to je dáno.
"Just what it says on the tin."

Za blbost se platí.
If you do something stupid, you have to make up for it.

Kuj železo, dokud je žhavé.
It's better to learn something when you're younger/make sure you do things at the right time

Nechlub se cizím peřím.
Don't show off about work you haven't done yourself

Pod svícnem je největší tma
The best hiding place is often within view of the person you're hiding from.

Jaký pán, takový krám.
If a person is good/bad they will have a good/bad influence on their surroudings.

Lepší třikrát vyhořet, než se jednou stěhovat.
Moving house is annoying

Všude dobře, doma nejlíp.
It's always nice to be at home.

Tak dlouho se chodí se džbánem pro vodu, až se ucho utrhne.
I you do something bad, you can do it for a long time, but eventually you will be found out.
